---
title: '10th AIROYoung Workshop and Ph.D. School in Padova'
date: 2026-02-14
permalink: /posts/2026/02/10ayw/
tags:
  - conferences
  - AIROYoung
---


And just like that, the [10th AIRO Young Workshop and Ph.D. School](https://ayw2026.github.io) is already over. It has been five intense days full of lectures, talks, discussions, networking, social events, and plenty of delicious Italian food and drinks.

A huge acknowledgement to all the people who contributed to making what we planned in the last months a reality. In particular, a special thanks to:
- The 120+ participants from Italy (78%) and abroad (22%), who attended the two parts of our event.
- The four Ph.D. School lecturers (Matteo Fischetti, Marco Di Summa, Francesco Rinaldi, and Domenico Salvagnin, from the University of Padova), who provided interesting overviews of solving methods and benchmarking – [Slides](https://lnkd.in/d5fkQijX)
- The four plenary speakers (Wolfram Wiesemann, Stefan Røpke, Martine Labbé, and Hande Yaman Paternotte), who investigated various optimization problems and hot topics in the deterministic and uncertain settings – [Slides](https://lnkd.in/dxpYussS)
- The AIROYoung founders (Lavinia Amorosi, Veronica Dal Sasso, Martina Fischetti, and Alberto Santini), the members of the previous board (Michele Barbato, Serena Fugaro, Giusy Macrina, Valentina Morandi, Lorenzo Peirano), as well as those in the current board (Matteo Cosmi, Martina Doneda, Alessandro Druetto, Andrea Mancuso, Sara Stoia, and Marta Leonina Tessitore), who shared our mission in a celebrative and interactive roundtable and invited the new, young researchers to step ahead and volunteer to make our community grow even more in the coming years – [Materials](https://lnkd.in/d3vA7yVJ)
- All our sponsors from academia (AIRO, the Dip. di Ingegneria dell'Informazione (DEI) - Dept. Information Engineering / UniPD, and the Department of Mathematics), research centers (CNR Institute for applied mathematics "Mauro Picone" (IAC), Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche IASI, and Fondazione LINKS), industry (Hexaly, FICO, MOSEK ApS, OPTIT S.r.l., Multiprotexion S.r.l., Cargoful | AI for transportation planning, OPTIMeasy, S.F. EXPRESS CO. LTD, and Springer), as well as local companies (Centrale del latte di Vicenza s.p.a., and Distilleria Fratelli Brunello dal 1840), without whom we could not have offered any of these, nor organized special awards.
- Last but not least, all members of the organizing committee (Lorenzo Perinello, Francesco Cavaliere, Martina Galeazzo, Dario Palasgo, Anthony Palmieri, Matteo Pernini, Gabriele Sanguin, and Manuel Francesco Aprile) for the effort each one had given.

Personally, I wouldn't have wanted to end my AIROYoung experience any other way. I am grateful to this association for everything it allowed me to be, become, and discover from 2019 to today; for all the enthusiasm it let me cultivate, share, and transmit; and, mostly and always, for all the people it made me meet, know, and learn from.
[One more time, happy birthday, and many happy returns](https://lnkd.in/den4yqc3)